All right.
I told you things could get complicated, so maybe you manage to figure it all out.
Maybe your parser only works partially.
Or maybe you haven't even managed to get it to run.
Don't worry.
As long as you've suffered a little bit figuring out the code, it is enough to go to the next move
and solve it by opening the doors of learning and you will become more skilled than before.
Also, remember the solution we are going to show you right now is not the only way to do it.
If you have achieved it with different code and it works, it is as valid as ours.
All right, now let's head over and Federico is going to show you how to create a text parser in py
charm.
The now we're in pacha.
I'm ready to create that text parser.
Usually when we create a program, we must first think about which variables we're going to need in
the first place of our text parser.
We're going to need two main variables.
One is going to be the variable text where I want to store the text generated by the user.
And the second variable is going to be the letters that the user is going to enter.
We're going to create these two variables now.
The variable text is going to be an input because it has something that the user is going to enter.
So we're going to put a prompt here that gives some indication of what the user has to do.
For example, enter a text of your choice.
This is what the user will understand that he has to do.
Then we leave a space with a code on there and already we have our input and the letters variable is
the place to store the letters that the user chooses, although they are also going to be inputs.
First, we're going to generate an empty list, which is where they're going to be stored once the user
enters them.
Okay, so these would be my initial variables.
Now I want to make sure that the text that the user enters is transformed into lowercase, because maybe
you remember that is part of this challenge that the letters that we're going to search in the text
could include both upper and lower case.
And one way to do this is to transform all the text into lowercase or uppercase so that there are no
letters of different types.
So we're going to call text, which is already exists as a variable, but we're going to overwrite it
and we're going to ask text to be equal to text.
But applying the lower method that we have here, which means lowercase.
Once we do that now, text will be all in lowercase.
Okay, let's move on.
We're now going to need to ask the user to enter the letters and in turn store them inside the variable
letters, which is a list.
So let's start with an input.
The input is going to say something simple and to the first letter colon space.
And we already have the first command.
But we want to store this in a variable now in which variable?
Not just any variable, we want it to be stored somewhere in the letters variable.
For example, in the first index.
So we say letters point append, which is the method to add something to a list.
Then we're going to put all this inside the parenthesis.
So this input will be immediately added to the letters list as soon as the user confirms his choice.
And his choice will be stored in the zero index because it will be the first thing to be added.
So now we're going to copy this so that this request occurs three times.
And the second one, we're going to ask for the second letter.
And then the third letter and considering the order in which our code is going to be processed, first
one will go to index zero, the second one to index one and the third one to index two.
I hope you follow me so far.
Well, we already have the inputs and we have our text transformed into lowercase.
Now, I also want to make sure that whatever the user enters his letters will be lowercase, because
if the user enters uppercase, we're in trouble.
So after this text, we're going to add a dot and we're going to put lower because technically this
is also a string and therefore what the user enters is going to be transformed into a string.
And what we do here is to make sure that this string, no matter if it's upper or lowercase, that it's
transformed into lowercase.
So now we're going to create a line break to create some space between our text.
We're going to write you remember the slash and the end that shows is an empty line.
And the next thing we're going to do is start returning information to the user.
So we're going to create a title to present the information about how many times his letters are presented
in this text.
So that's the first thing we want to inform him.
So let's do it in capital letters, letter repetition.
This is the third first thing we have to generate with our code.
And if we want to know how many times those letters in the text, we're going to create the variable
to store it.
Let's call it letter repetition, and we're going to make letter repetition equal to what is in text.
It's applying the count method, which is the one that allows us to count a specific value.
And what value are we going to count first?
Well, we're going to count the first of the letters.
That is inside letters in the index zero.
And this is going to return what there is in the index, zero of the letters list, and it's going to
be the first letter that the user entered.
This is going to count how many times there in the text and here in letter repetition we will store
that information.
We should have one of these variables for each of the letters entered by the user.
So we're going to make this letter repetition one, letter repetition two and letter repetition three.
And this is going to be an index one, and this is going to be indexed, too.
So we've already calculated these three options.
Now we need to inform the user.
We can do it with a print that has a literal string.
So we're going to put F.
To begin to compose a sentence that says, for example, we have found the letter and here we put a
key with a reference to letters in the index zero.
Then here it will inform you that the letter has been found.
We have found the letter X repeated, and here comes the number of times it appears.
So we make another key with a reference to the variable letter repetition one and we complete the sentence
with the word times.
And it would be great that the letter actually appears in the quotation marks.
So we're going to put in single quotation marks here so that the letter that we are going to represent
in our string is seen between quotation marks making our sentence much more clear.
We're going to repeat this line twice because we want to say that we've found the next letter, the
one that is in index one, and that the number of times it will be found inside the variable letter
repetition two and the letter repetition three, which is the variable that has that information.
So do you think we're okay so far?
Let's run it and see how we are.
Run and run.
Let's go to text parser and here we have.
Enter a text of your choice.
And here I'm going to paste a sentence from here.
Luis Borges, a very talented Argentinian writer of the 20th century.
The phrase says, You are not what you are by what you write, but by what you read.
Interesting.
Well, let's leave it here.
You can put any text you want.
Now, it asks me to enter the first letter.
Okay, I'm going to ask it to look for E, and then it asks me for the second one and we're going to
make it put.
M And the third one we're going to put a once we hit enter.
Well, it prints letter repetitions.
We have found the letter e repeated five times the M Well, it's never there.
We can check.
And it seems to be like that.
And the letter A appears seven times.
Of course, if you've chosen different letters or even a different text, you will find different values.
So let's move on with the code.
Now, let's move on to the next task, which asks for the number of words in our text.
So we're going to print let's copy this so that we can paste the break line and sign that says number
of words.
And how do we do a word count?
We're going to need to create a variable called words where we can store this information.
And what will words contain?
It will contain our text, but we're also going to apply it to method that you will remember, a string
method which is called split, that allows it to separate the text into portions.
What kind of portions?
Well, if we leave this parenthesis empty, it will separate them by the empty spaces.
That is to say, it will separate our text in words, and this will create a list, then words.
It will be the list that contains the words of our text.
So now I can count how many words are in my list.
And for that, we're going to create directly the sentence that gives the answer.
We're going to make it a little string that is going to say we have found.
And here comes the number of words inside braces, of course, with the length or Len.
If you remember this function of the variable words, this is going to give us a quantity.
So we have found x words in your text.
This should work.
Fine.
So let's run it and see if this working right.
We're going to have the same text.
We're going to put it in any three letters, and here we have the number of words.
So we found 16 words in your text.
So far, this is working pretty well.
So the third part of our challenge was to indicate which letters are the first one and the last one
of our text.
So we're going to paste in a line break again and with a title that says First and last letters.
And we're going to create two more variables.
First letter, which is going to be found using a string method.
Let's say text that is zero index and that will give us the first letter.
And the last letter will be found using the same method.
But since we don't know the amount of letters that our text has, what we do is to use the inverse count.
So we look for whatever is in the index minus one.
So now we already have the variables.
We need to be able to print a sentence that is constructed as a literal string that says the initial
letter is.
So we opened some braces and we put the variable first letter and continue the sentence with comma.
The final letter is.
And also another brace.
But this one contains last letter, which is the other variable that contains our information.
Since their letters, let's make sure they are in single quotes so that our string is not interrupted
here and now.
This should work.
So let's run it again.
I'm going to paste my phrase and let's put in any three letters.
And down here it tells me first and last letters.
The initial letter is Y.
So that's right.
And the final letter is D, which is right to OC.
Our code is working fine.
Notice that this is long but elegant.
Now we're going to replace the headers now to go to the fourth command, which was to get the text reversed
to get the words upside down.
So here we're going to put inverted text.
And how can we do this?
We have a list which is in the words list, which we have here, which has all the words in our text,
and we can take advantage of this variable by applying the reverse method.
So we're going to do it now writing words, and let's add the reverse method that allows us to reverse
its order.
But if we print this now, the only thing that we get is a series of words separated by commas and between
the brackets of a list.
Then we're going to see a list.
But I don't want to see a list.
I want to see these words organized as if it were a sentence.
So let's create a new variable.
This one is going to be called inverted text.
And we're going to make inverted text equal to an empty space between quotes period.
And since an empty space is a string, remember now we can take advantage of the method we learn today,
which is called join.
I'm going to join a list of words separated by space.
And where am I going to get the words?
Well, from the list, words that I've already reversed here, so we can assume that we already have
the value that we're looking for.
I'm going to check it by printing a sentence that is also a literal string and that say something like
If we order your text backwards, it will say, and here we put the braces to make the variable that's
called inverted text, which is the one that contains our answer.
And since we want this to appear in quotes, we select it all and put a single quote at the beginning
and a single quote at the end so that it shows up the way we want it to.
Will it work?
Let's see.
Let's run it and we paste again our text.
We choose any three letters, and here at the end we have the inverted text.
If we order your text backwards, it will say, and here it comes, a pretty weird sentence that has
no meaning.
But it says read have you what by but right you want by our book.
You are not you crazy, huh?
And now we're going to create the last of the instructions.
And this one may be a little more complicated than the previous ones.
So we're going to put the line break here and we're going to put a title that says Looking for the word
python.
Well, I was telling you this might be a little bit more complicated because we still don't really have
the necessary elements to be able to do logical tests.
That is, if something is found or not, we're going to learn those tools pretty soon.
But right now we have to solve it using what we already have.
So this will be somewhat a rudimentary way to do it with the tools we have right now.
So as Phil told you in the previous video, he hinted that it would be good to use Booleans and a dictionary.
So how?
Let me show you.
I'm going to do it in the following way.
First, I'm going to create a variable called is Python, which is the one that will store the information
about whether or not the word Python is found in the text.
So how do I do this?
Remember, I type the word I want to search for Python and ask it if it is in the text then is underscore.
Python will contain the answer to this question, which is in this case.
In the case of the text I included, it will be false because Borges did not know Python.
Well, now I want to know that Python is found or not, and I can get the information as a value, true
or false.
What I need now is to be able to incorporate that word, true or false, to a literal string.
But the problem is that these words will be capitalized and I need them in lowercase to be part of my
sentence.
Actually, I'm going to change them so that in the other words, they will make my sentence more readable.
So I'm going to create the dictionary.
I'm going to type dick here.
And the dictionary that will have only two pairs of elements.
A key that's called true colon and that's associated with the value was all lowercase.
And then we're going to create a second element for this dictionary is going to have the key false.
And we're going to associate it with a string that says was not.
So now I can make some kind of logical comparison where we're going to write a print that is also a
literal string that says the word python.
And here, we have to say, was found or was not found.
And we have those phrases as values in our dictionary.
So how am I going to locate them?
Well, I'm going to make a call.
To whom, too, is Python?
Because is Python has the word true or false since the search has been done?
And where am I going to look for the word true or false?
Well, in my dictionary.
So let's put all of this in curly brackets and write dick here.
So what I'm looking for then is whatever is in the dictionary is a value for the key.
True or false?
That is it is going to tell me was or was not.
So I really hope you follow me at this moment.
If not, please pause the video and view this logic carefully.
So we've completed the sentence.
The word python was or was not found in the text.
Did it work?
Did we get it right?
Did we get it more or less right?
We're going to run it one last time.
So we're going to type the same text.
We're going to type any three letters.
And already all of this we've checked and it's working fine.
So now we have looking for the word python.
The word python was not found in the text.
And the last check we're going to do is run it again.
So here we're going to paste in the text now and I'm going to purposely put Python here, even though
it doesn't make sense.
We're going to hit enter.
We put in any three letters and now we see that at the end of the word python it was found in the text.
So it worked.
So our next parser is now functional and can be used by anyone who is interested in using this little
program.
Please forgive the length of this lecture, but we needed some extra time to deploy everything we set
out today.